# SDD-Major

**Fish Spot**


**Problem**
A lot of people start fishing without knowing the rules and regulations. A number of them often have trouble recognising the type of fish and fail to meet the legal requirements to keep them. These fishing regulations are important to follow as it helps to ensure healthy and sustainable fisheries for future generations. The size limits on the fish allow them to reach full-growth and complete the breeding cycle and the bag limits ensure species are not overfished. In a survey conducted in 2013 – 2014 there was an estimated 850,000 NSW residents who participated in recreational fishing throughout a 12-month period. This number has only increased in more recent years. In January and February alone in 2017, over 17500 fish were recorded to have been seized due to being undersize and in excess of the bag limit. This result was from a combination of ignorance and lack of knowledge surrounding the laws. Over the past decades there have been a number of species of fish including the Blackfin Cisco and Blue Walleye which have been fished to the point of extinction. While commercial fishing companies are the main problem when it comes to overfishing, recreational fishermen can negatively contribute through breaking bag limit laws and keeping undersize fish. 

**Needs and requirements, Boundaries and Outline**
This problem can be solved through the development of a piece of software which will be able to help the user identify the type of fish and provide information such as its species, legal length and legal keep quantity based on the type of fish. It will be targeted towards beginner fishermen of all ages who have difficulty identifying species of fish and are not familiar with the regulations and rules surrounding fishing. It will educate and encourage people to follow the fishing laws. The program will not be able to include every single species of fish caught throughout NSW. It will have a mixture of the most common species shown in the 2014 recreational fishing survey which includes Bream: ~2.2 million caught, Flathead: ~ 1 million caught and Snapper: ~750,000 caught. This will ensure new fishermen will be educated on the laws around the fish they are most likely to catch. 

